"Oh, these are rewards of grace, you and I don't earn them, but don't you ever think that he isn't going to remember when his followers go out and occupy till he comes. Do you think he would ask you and me to do it? There would be no special rewards of grace, no special glory, no special joy? What must fullness of joy eternally be like? But he says, 'That's what I'll give you.' He's standing there, oh I won't know your capacity, you won't know mine. But Jesus says, 'Whatever your capacity, and this is where you and I determine it, right here on earth, whatever it is, if you go out, then you will share, and you will tell the story, I promise you this, that in heaven, your capacity will be filled with joy, to the extent that your soul can have it, and continuously, never for a millionth of a second less than that.' This is fullness of joy. What must it be like? And we ought to say to ourselves, then, 'God, I'm going to obey it.' And if I'm going to obey it, then I ought to say, 'Here's the 20th century. If there's ever an opportunity, if there's ever a chance in your life and mine, if there is ever a time, and you and I ought to say to ourselves, I'm going to occupy to, you're coming back, it's now.' We've got radio. If there's ever a time to tell the stories, now. We've got television. We have means of communication that centuries ago, they never dreamed of. I remember the night that Ruth and I flew into Amsterdam, Holland, when we were over in Europe. The man that met us at the airport, he said, 'Do you realize that off of Telstar tonight, we sat in the hotel, and on our television, we saw President John Kennedy? And he spoke to us, and it was as clear as if he were in the room,' and the man went into ecstasy. 'Think of it off of Telstar, your President of the United States, on a television live in Amsterdam in Holland.' If there's ever been a time when Jesus says, 'I'm coming back, will you make use of your opportunities?' Then when you and I do, we can say to ourselves in his sight, 'We are the most important people on earth.' Who are the most important people? Christians. Christians who are out to occupy until he comes. Why? Because he says, 'I'm coming back, and before I come back, will you go out and will you tell my story?' Who are the important people? He says, 'Oh, you've been faithful in the little things.' See, the world thinks this is the most nonsensical thing in the world. Such a small and trite and just simply an inconceivably small thing to, and he says, 'Will you go out and tell my story?' We are the most important people on earth."