"Jesus as the Son of Man, that makes him big enough because also as the Son of Man, he's not only God and not only man, but he's also the one to whom God has given his Father the authority to be the judge and to determine the eternal destiny. He told them that day," he says, "'My Father has entrusted me with the authority to judge the human race.' God the Father took this and said, 'Here, Son, this is your job. You may do this. You are the one, as God and man, you are the one to decide where every human being who has ever walked on this earth shall spend eternity.' And therefore, since he has that authority given him by his Father, he is the Son of God and the Son of Man, you and I know this, that he is big enough, that he will conduct the two judgments that are mentioned in Scripture. There are two judgments that Christ will oversee. The first one is the one when we die. As Paul said, 'It is appointed unto a man once to die and after that the judgment.' When your soul and mine, see I have a body, I am a soul. When your soul and mine leaves the body, we stand before Jesus Christ in judgment. This is the big one. And he will supervise that and on the basis of faith in him, if you and I put our faith and trust in him as our Savior, then he is the one who will again hear, this is the judgment that decides, your soul and mine will go to heaven with him. If you and I have repudiated him as Lord and Savior and have said 'No' and laughed at him, your soul and mine shall be condemned to hell. That's the first judgment. That's the judgment that decides our eternal destiny. And then there's another judgment at the last day. And this is the one when he mentions especially, and 'They that have done good unto the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil unto the resurrection of damnation.' You may say, 'Is there a different basis for judgment at the last day?' Oh no. Who is it that does good? The Word of God says 'Without faith it is impossible to please God.' And since this is the judgment before the entire human race, Jesus talks about deeds as evidence of faith. The good person is the one who has put his faith in Christ and his life proves it. The one who has done evil is the one who has repudiated Christ and therefore his deeds are not acceptable. This is the final judgment that again, the first one decides this one will divide the human race. Everyone before him. And Jesus will give the final word as to when your body and mine is raised from the dead and we stand before him, where are we going to spend eternity? Is it going to be in hell or is it going to be in heaven? Jesus says, 'Don’t laugh. This is what I’m going to do on that day.' And if you and I can believe that and he says, 'Please don’t marvel to the point that you laugh when ready to make fun of this. Believe it with all your heart.' He says, 'I’m big enough. Don’t forget I’m the Son of Man.' Then again there’s only one thing important at this moment in your life and mine whether you and I have him as Lord and Savior. Whether you and I have put him off. And we may say, 'Well, I put him off so long I wonder if I can still come back.' We may say, 'I have, I have backslidden so often.' We may say, 'Though I promised him that I would again really repent and that I haven’t.' And think of, I wonder how many times David said that to himself when he was up on the roof that night to know when he saw Bathsheba and she was a beautiful woman as he saw her taking a bath and he had her come over and they sinned together. I’m sure when he went to bed that night he said to God, 'I’m sorry.' But the next day he saw her again and probably that night again he said, 'I’m sorry,' but they cohabited, didn’t they? And when he knew that she was going to have a child I’m sure that he told God, 'I’m sorry,' and he wanted to quit but he didn’t quit. And then again to bring her husband home he got him drunk and I’m sure he told God, 'I’m sorry to get him drunk but I got to blame this baby on him,' and that didn’t work. I’m sure David every night told God he was sorry but he went on and then when he had to have her husband killed, Uriah, had him killed, I’m sure that he said to God, 'God, I’m sorry I had to put him to death but I just had to,' and it went on. But finally when Nathan brought into his senses in spite of the number of times that he had said he was sorry and he wasn’t sorry enough to quit, he did finally turn—'Create in me a clean heart, oh God'—didn’t he? And again the greatness of our sins say to us, 'I can’t embrace Jesus Christ today.' Oh, there’s Saul of Tarsus, or again Paul as we know him, he said, 'I’m the greatest sinner that ever lived,' therefore, 'I don’t know what your sins are, but they aren’t as big as mine.' And he’d say, 'God forgave me.' When we stand this morning and we say, 'Forgive me,' we embrace Jesus Christ, then we have this joy, the joy of knowing that when our bodies are raised, that again we shall have eternal life, that the judgment will not be one of damnation, but it will be one of life and salvation, and nothing else matters."
