 Praise be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Morning dear friends in Christ Jesus. It is a beautiful Sunday morning, isn't it? And it's good to be back with you after three Sundays. And I guess I had better be back as you have told me. What a joy again to gather here in God's house and to hear his word and to praise our God. The intellectual city of the world in his day. The city of Socrates, the city of Plato, the city of Pericles, the city of Demosthenes. Paul had left his workers back in Berea. He was on his second missionary journey and you recall that it was at Roeth when he had the great call to come into Macedonia. He had crossed into Europe and was up in Philippi. He had come down into Thessalonica. He was over in Brie and then he came to this great city of Athens. The intellectual city of intelligent men in all the world. And he was there alone. Silas and Timothy had remained behind in Brie. You may wonder what did this man call this little Jew from Tarsus? What did he do when he came to the city of Athens? For he was all alone and I've often wondered how did he feel. But he walked the streets of Athens and when he did we are told that he was distressed within him. He had a pain in his heart and he said to himself, why this city is given over holy to idolatry. All he saw, he saw temples and he saw shrines and he saw altars directed to false gods and it pained him deeply. We are told that he went into the synagogues that were found in Athens and he discussed this matter with some of the fervent Jews and while he was there he told them about Jesus Christ also. He went to the marketplace and as the pastors by would come and he would engage them in conversation. He told them about God's Son, Jesus Christ. And then we are told that he met some of the philosophers of that day, the Stoics and the Etrifurians and they were interested in what Paul was saying about this Jesus who arose from the dead and they invited him to come to the Areopagus. Now that means the hill of Ares and Ares was the Greek god of war. The Romans called Ares Mars and that's why it's called Mars hill. They said come to Mars hill. This is where we dispute and where we like to hear strange things and new things and we want to hear you. We once said to him, we wonder what this babbler, this cracker box individual has to say. This man who again doesn't know what he's talking about, but we want to hear something about the strange gods that he's talking about and about this Jesus. So they went out to Mars hill and then Paul addressed again this group of the intelligentsia of his day. And he told them, he said, when I came into your city, he said I walked around, he said I see you're a very religious people. You have shrines and dollars erected to all the gods that you can remember, but I saw that you are so ridiculous that lest you forgot one, you've got an altar erected to the unknown god. Then he said, whom you therefore worship ignorantly, this god that you are worshiping you don't even know who he is, he said him declare I unto you. And then Paul went on there on Mars hill to those in Athens and he preached unto them God's Christ, God's Son, the Lord Jesus as you and I know him. And today on this ninth Sunday after Trinity from the word of God, it is Paul standing on Mars hill calling to you and to me as Christians. And he is saying as I on Mars hill, as I declared God's Christ, as I preached him, and as I bore witness, Paul calls to you and me as Christians this morning and he says, I want you to do the same, I plead with you, you be a witness for Jesus Christ. I want you to declare him, I want you to win others for Christ, I want you to be Christ's salesman, I want you to sell Jesus Christ to others, I want you to do everything that you can do to see that others have Christ. And I wonder how you and I react to something that you say Paul calls to the word of God from Mars hill, he's talking to you as a Christian to me this morning, he said will you be a salesman for Jesus Christ, will you sell him to others that others may have him? And I wonder if we don't get some kind of a reaction like this within your heart to within mine that we say, why? What is so important about giving Christ to somebody else? We may say well we have him, but after all why give Christ to somebody else when other people for the most part are religious in their own way? We may say why the Athenians were religious, why they were religious, they had altars and shrines erected to every god that they could think of even to an unknown god. And you and I may say as long as people worship some kind of a god, as long as we're all trying to go to the same place, is it so desperately important and urgent that you and I be a salesman for Christ, and that we do everything that we can that another person may have Jesus Christ? Is that so important? And we may also say to ourselves, after all is this justified that you and I do it? Do we have a right to butt into people who worship their own gods and who have their own religion? Do you and I have the right to simply go in and intrude on them? I wonder how many of us may say, what right did Paul, this little Jew from Tarsus, have to go into Athens, the intelligence of this world founded there, and to go in and to tell them about Jesus Christ? Why didn't he stay home and tend to his tent-making? Why don't individuals, why don't we stay home and take care of our knitting? We're buddingskis, you and I may say. Am I to be a buddingski? Am I to go and intrude on somebody else when he has his religion and he's sincere? And I am to go and to witness to him for Christ? Is it desperately necessary and doesn't it mean that you and I become just plain buddingskis? We become busy-bodied, we become rude, we become unkind. And when Paul calls to the word of God this morning from Marshall and he says to you and me as Christian, he says, will you be a salesman for Jesus Christ? Will you declare him? Will you go out to win somebody? Will you tell somebody about Jesus Christ? Will you do everything that you can in order to give Jesus Christ to somebody behind him? And all because Paul would answer you on the, oh it's desperately important. It's a matter of life and death even though you may feel you're a buddingski. And Paul would say because of this conviction that he had and he wants you and me to have, and that is that only Jesus Christ and no other person in all the world has eternal life and everlasting salvation to give, and he's the only one to prove that he's got it to give. Paul would say this is why I want you to be a salesman for Christ. He and he alone, he is exclusive. He is the only person in all the world who has life and salvation to give. Apart from him there is no other human being, there is no other person in the world that has eternal life to give. That's what you and I want. And we may say this morning, is that true, preacher? You mean to say that only Jesus Christ, he is that exclusive, that he stands alone, that no other person except Jesus Christ has eternal life to give, and that he alone has proved that he has it? And on the basis of the word of God, Paul would remind you of me that's true. Paul was there in Athens and he was standing there before the intelligentsia of the world. He was humbly in the city all alone, but he was telling him about Jesus Christ, why because he had a conviction that Jesus Christ and him alone, in him alone is their life and salvation because Paul would assure you and me in the first place that only Christ, he exclusively and no one else, he has satisfied God's justice against you and me and has proved it by his resurrection. Apart from Jesus Christ, I'd like to ask you, do you know of anybody else who has met the justice of God against you and me? The word of God tells you and tells me that we're both sinners, we're all sinners, we have come short of the glory of God and we stand condemned. God is a God of love and he's a God of justice. God says the soul that sinneth it shall die, because God is just, therefore God's justice damns my soul to hell and yours also and all men's, because you and I stand as sinners and being just he can do no other but what he must condemn us, otherwise he would prove to be an unjust God. Do you know of anybody else who has met this justice against you and me except Jesus Christ? Paul had a conviction, he knew Jesus Christ, that he was God's son who came into this world and became a human being born of the Virgin Mary without sin and he as the God man, he went to the cross and he said to his heavenly father, I want to satisfy your justice, let me bear the brunt of their sins and damnation, let me on the cross bear the equal of an eternal hell for the entire human race and God did it and he met God's justice and I ask you, do you know of anybody else in any other religion in the world that has ever met the justice of God? And Paul says and he proved it by his resurrection and Paul if you and I would say, how do you know who you are? Paul said I saw him, I saw him on the Damascus Way and because there is no one except Jesus Christ who has met the justice of God, who took the wrath for you and me and because there is no one therefore who has deliverance from hell to give except Christ, he and he alone. Therefore it is than any wonder that Paul, he went to Athens, why he stood there on Mars hill, yes he knew, here he was a humble Jew telling about a Jesus that died on the cross and that alludes again but he did it, why? It was burning within him because he knew this that it was a desperate need of all men to have Jesus Christ and we say to ourselves well then if this is it, if Paul calls to me that I am to be again a salesman, I am to sell Jesus Christ, I'm to see that people with whom I come into contact will have Christ, then we ought to say since this is so desperately necessary, even though we may feel that we're being butt in skis and we're including and it's rather rude, we ought to say to ourselves I'm going to determine from this moment on that I'm never going to accuse myself of being a butt in skis when I talk to somebody about Jesus Christ. No it's rather strange even in the church today there are those that are saying the church is nothing but a butt in skis group, I'm going and giving the message of Jesus Christ to others, some churches say we're withdrawing our help in foreign mission work, we are no longer going over and men are saying the day of foreign mission work is done, we no longer are going to bring Jesus Christ to others, that isn't their need, they have their religion, they are sincere. Paul would say to you and me remember there is only one person that has eternal life to give, only one person that can deliver from death and hell, there are those who are saying now the church's job is to go out and feed the hungry and take care of the poor, we've been doing that, is there anything wrong in doing both? If the church should give up this great desperate mission call that we are to go out and be salesmen for Christ because he alone has eternal life, does that mean we are butt in skis? Is the church butting into individuals, people if your neighbor's house is on fire you see in the middle of the night and you run up to the door and say your house is on fire are you butt in skis? If you had a cure for cancer and you ran into a home at midnight and said I've got a cure, are you butt in skis? You and I say well how about the heathen? After all Paul was speaking here, he was over here on Mars Hill and he was telling them and he told them about God who had created the heavens and earth, he started out very nicely and he said the God that you don't know has created the heavens and the earth and he said he has made all of us of one blood rather strange isn't it? 2000 years ago he knew that human blood was all the same, we come from one origin from Adam and Eve, human blood is the same whether you and I are a white man or a black man or a yellow man or a red man and again he says God doesn't confine himself the temples, God doesn't need men to build him in gold and in silver and to engrave him in stone, he said we are all God's offspring and then he went on and told these stoics and these Epicureans about Jesus Christ, here were the intelligentsia, the Epicureans you and I know of them, they were individuals who didn't believe in life after death and their great motto was he can be married for tomorrow you die, live it up and their great God was pleasure and the stoic he was a little different, he was one who elevated human reason, he was the one that said what I can't understand that I don't believe and therefore he said you must be oblivious to pain in this world or to joy, you must be indifferent and therefore when in life you feel that you have lived it you may take your own life, it is perfectly all right, there was no Christ there, there was no Christ you say about the heathen, may I say this in the word of God, God doesn't tell us what's going to happen to the man who has never heard about Jesus Christ, but the word of God does tell you and me that only Christ and he exclusively has eternal life to give, let's leave the heathen to God, but if there's anybody here this morning who has never embraced Jesus Christ you can never stand before God and say you didn't have an opportunity, you and I need to look into our homes and amongst the people where we work and say this man's without Christ, he's lost, he's damned because only in Christ, only in Christ is there again one who has borne hell for you and me to look at a man without Jesus means to say and to say it definitely, my loved one because he's without Christ, he's lost, he's damned, when you and I can say that we can say I'm not a Budinsky, then there comes this comfort that if we are Budinsky's we're in good company because we're in the company of Jesus, he said go and make disciples didn't he, if at the risk of being a Budinsky, of being an intruder, nevertheless Paul then was an intruder, but Paul says and he speaks to you and me from our tale, he says go out and you be a salesman for Jesus Christ and you may say why, is it so desperately important, doesn't that make us Budinsky, doesn't that make us individuals that oh we've become rude, we are intruding where we have no right and Paul says there's only one who has eternal life and who has proved it by his resurrection because Paul in the second place would remind you and me that only Christ, he exclusively, no other person in all the world has the righteousness that you and I need for heaven and Christ has proved it by his resurrection, do you know of anybody else in all the world who has a righteousness that says it's got to be a perfect righteousness, you and I don't have this perfect righteousness, no other God that you and I have ever heard of has this righteousness, but Jesus Christ, God's son, he has it doesn't he, when he died on the cross for you and me and he bore the justice of God, God gave him a perfect righteousness for the entire human race because it was an eternal sacrifice and therefore he and he alone, he has that passport to heaven that you and I need, it is a perfect 100% righteousness that he earned for you and me and he proved it by his resurrection, he arose from the dead and says here I have the ticket to heaven, here is the righteousness that you need, I give you therefore not only an eternal rescue from hell but I give you eternal life at the end of life's way and what a joy to know that at death and when we have this Christ that he and he alone assures us that we shall go to the eternal mansions, that it shall be the end of sorrow and heartache and unrest and frustration and cases of nerves and whatever you and I may have that makes life miserable to know that we have heaven with him, this is the difference, so again we may say to ourselves and excuse ourselves, well I don't want to be a Barinsky, it's none of my business, but when Paul from Marshall says listen you Christians, I want you to declare Jesus Christ as I have declared him, I want you to know that it's tremendously important, we ought to say to ourselves this morning that the risk of others thinking we're simply nothing but Barinsky's and we're simply intruding and we're being uncut, we ought to say I ought to begin in my life today to take every opportunity to be a salesman for Jesus Christ, he is of such vital importance, a man needs him and when we would take every occasion that's rather strange, how many occasions and opportunities arise in your life and mine when we look for them and we're ready for them, I don't know about you but I was rather pleased the other night in the Marian star when I saw six pictures of six men in our school system who were advanced and promoted and I was very pleased the three of them belong here at Emmanuel, sometimes people say what is Emmanuel doing for the kingdom of God, there was Marian Chang, there was Jerry Emory, there was Vaughn Williams, what a tremendous opportunity those three men have as Christians as they deal with our young people to say something for Jesus Christ, to put in a good word and two on the school board, Lois Morgan and Johnny Walker belong to us and I say to them what what an opportunity, what an opportunity to be a salesman for Christ when men desperately need it and in your life and mine, just one day to this very past week we talk about opportunity besides the regular work that I had, sixth opportunity came to me in that day that I never dreamed would come to do something about Jesus Christ, one was a call would you go to intensive care at Marian General Hospital and elderly man with a heart attack very seriously ill, would you offer him the comfort of Christ and I did, when I left his bed it was dark in there the nurse said here's the man in this bed that I didn't see him, couldn't tell who he was, he would like to have you talk and he had had a heart attack Friday morning, would you come for him, he asks for you, over across to the other hospital, one again said there's a man from the outside from out of town, he's up in the life service unit and would you go up and would you comfort him in death, there's another one up there, would you go in the serious auto accident in this life extension unit, would you go and help that person, in other words somebody's mother is in intensive care here who needs some spiritual guidance, would you go, here's a young man that is paralyzed from his shoulders on down, he again at times becomes rather bitter, would you go in and would you talk to him, you come out when you say to yourself what what opportunities, what do you have in your life, where you are, oh again maybe life's become humdrum for you, maybe again you're so bored with what you're doing you can hardly stand it, I wonder if you'd go to work tomorrow morning and you'd say this is the means to an end I wonder if I haven't got an opportunity just to be a salesman, some little kindness, some little word, something about Jesus Christ, it will again, it will make life worth living, it will again put a little spice, a little joy, it will put a little fun, there is no greater joy, well then again you may call it being a Budinsky, but oh to offer some little kind words about Christ as Lord and Savior and to have individuals appreciate it, Paul calls to Mars Hill and Paul again, lonely guy in the city of Athens, standing there and he goes again and here before him no doubt he was scared to death to speak to that group, but here the intellectuals of the world and here a little Jew, going to tell them about Jesus who arose from the dead, what would they think about him, but oh again he knew this, this was the conviction of his soul that only Christ, this exclusive person, no other person in the world has eternal life and salvation again and again he assures you and me that no other person except Jesus Christ is going to come again, who is going to have the final word in your eternal destiny in mind and in the eternal destiny of the entire human race and he proved it by his resurrection, Paul stood up there at Mars Hill that day and he told them, he says I'm talking to you about Jesus and he says this Jesus, this God that you don't know has appointed him and he's coming back Paul knew he was coming back because he saw him alive, he who had conquered the grave was going to come back and Paul said he is going to judge the world, all men are going to stand before him, do you know of anybody else, do you know of any other person that's going to come back and judge the entire human race and raise every man from the dead and oh how necessary that others have Jesus Christ because he and he alone he is so exclusive, he's the only one that's got glory for your bodies and mind in him that he says I'll give you a glorified body when I raise it from the dead if you have me, he's the only one that has the power to create new heavens and a new earth to reunite you and me with our loved ones and to live forever with him in his eternal kingdom where I have not seen nor ever heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him, do you know of anybody that is like that except Jesus Christ, yet isn't it strange when we say to ourselves and I am to witness and to be a salesman, I'm to tell Jesus Christ to do everything I can that somebody may have him and then to say oh is it important that another person has Christ I have him but as long as he's sincere as long as he's working to go to the same place isn't this all right and am I not being a busy body and am I not being a bloody and stay and shouldn't I stay home and take care of my knitting I haven't any right to talk to those people Paul says oh listen Paul says it's desperate only Christ is going to give us the eternal assurance of paradise regained we ought to say to ourselves then I'm going to this day I'm going to be a witness I'm going to stop apologizing and stop excusing myself I cannot be a Budinsky I haven't any right I'm being rude I shouldn't talk to somebody who doesn't have Christ because he's got what he believes and he's got his own religion even though he doesn't have Christ it's going to be all right I must not risk being embarrassed or button in on him oh God forbid but you and I may do it with enthusiasm and with again with a real feeling of confidence but when we talk about Christ believes you me it does something well you must say well what happened preacher well I know in the New Testament there's no book to the Athenians is there some say Paul failed at Athens there's no book he didn't establish a congregation there you got again two letters to the congregation at Corinth you got letters to the Thessalonica congregation there are two of them you got again you've got letters to so many of the places Ephesus and you don't have any two Athens and they say well what what about it well we are told that when he finished he was alone mind in this big city we are told that when he finished assembly there was a Dionysius he was an eriophagite he belonged to the Mars Hill council he belongs to town council he was a man of some reputation he believed and then there was a woman by the name of Damaris whoever she was and then it says others there weren't too many and then Paul left but he he witnessed and yet tradition tells us that this Dionysius became the first bishop of Athens we aren't sure about that but I can say this nearly 2,000 years later over 1900 years I visited Athens thanks to you when I left the Holy Land the last stop before coming home was Athens and I wanted to I wanted to have the thrill of walking down the streets of Athens just feeling alone like Paul did that little Jew big city and here again when I walked here was the ruins of the temple of Zeus and here were the older still standing and I went to the Acropolis that's the high part of the city and on the west of the Acropolis there's Mars Hill and went up on Mars Hill with our group and right above Mars Hill there is the Parthenon that was built before the time of Christ parthenon osmene virgin this was the temple built to the virgin Athena who was the patron again goddess of the city of Athens the most magnificent said to be piece of architecture the world has ever seen they pride it very much with joy but I was there and stood at Mars Hill and we read Mars Hill several read it we heard the story and I wondered what good did it do this little Jew there but you know the day that I came into Athens the man who met us at the airport said you can't shop today it's a holiday and that's why I said to him what's the holiday and he said well the whole city is closed down asking because he says today is the day that commemorates the death of Mary the death of Mary a holiday so I thought to myself did it do any good for the little Jew the little war horse to stand on Mars Hill and to tell them about Jesus nearly 2,000 years later they had a holiday oh Christianity has penetrated so much that again the day that commemorated the death of Mary the mother of Jesus they closed down who knows oh that when you and I may say this does something there is power and it means an increased faith in you and me so that we don't have to dread too much the day of our death oh to dread this day of death how we meet individuals if you and I only knew I think of William Randolph Hearst the great journalist and newspaper and owner who again would never allow the word death to be mentioned in his presence he was so afraid of death there was Mrs. Winchester from the rightful fortune she had the idea that she could delay death indefinitely in her life if she would always have an incomplete project that there would always be something in her life that she had never finished yet death came in her home in San Jose California we're told is a hodgepodge of unfinished corridors and staircases she never would allow her palace to be finished thinking that she could stave off that so afraid are you afraid of death it's coming isn't it the shadow is there you and I say I know I'm going to die what's one of the grandest remedies to do away with the dread of death it's to again as Paul calls to Marzio go out and you win somebody else for Jesus Christ and your faith will grow and that as you face the shadow of death you can you can take his hand in joy and you can say lead kindly light amid the encircling gloom lead thou me on the night is dark and I am far from home lead thou me on keep thou my feet I do not ask to see the distant scene no one step enough for me lead on kindly light oh for God's sakes let's be buddings keys for Jesus Christ the peace of God which pasteth all human understanding keeping the night your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus until life everlasting you