 Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen Let us hear the word of God as we find a written in Paul's letter to the Romans reading there in the eighth chapter beginning at the 33rd verse Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth who is he that condemneth It is Christ that died a rather that is risen again who is even at the right hand of God who also make us Intercession for us who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword as it is written? For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter Nay, and all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us For I am persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor Principalities nor powers nor things present nor things to come nor height nor depth nor any other creature Shall be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord And now may the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight Oh Lord our strength and our Redeemer Amen Good morning dear friends and Christ Jesus Again, we may say it's rather dark in a gloomy Sunday a bit on the foggy side But I do hope and pray that we are all happy to have the privilege of being here in God's house and Worshipping him this Lord's day. This is the 17th Sunday after Trinity We are slowly and gradually coming to the end of another church year The text that I just read for this morning is taken out of Paul's letter to the Romans the letter that he wrote to the Christian congregation in Rome now Paul had never been to Rome so we know that he did not establish this congregation In fact, we aren't sure who did he was writing to them when he was on his third missionary journey The year was about 58 AD Paul was down in Corinth in Greece We had a longing and a desire that he wanted to go to Rome and he wanted to greet the Christians there So we wrote this letter and in view of his coming He wanted to encourage them and to give them comfort and in this text He says to them in order to give them this comfort and this encouragement. He says Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? He says Roman Christians Do you know of anybody who will be able to separate us from God's love that God will stop loving us and that God Will take back his salvation from us Do you know of anybody out there in life that would be able to drive a wedge between us and God? So that God would say I'm going to take back the salvation in Christ that I have given that Christian Paul says, you know of anybody out there Paul says I don't Paul said, you know anything out there Lying waiting that is able to separate us from the love of God to break us off from God But God would say I've got to stop loving you and I've got to take back my life and salvation Paul says I don't and then he says nay and all these things He said in all those things that lie out there that would like to drive a wedge that would like to separate us from God's Love that would like to cause God to withdraw his salvation and life that he has given us Paul says in all those things we are more than conquerors through Christ You may say what was he saying to them for comfort and encouragement? This is what he was trying to tell the Roman Christians He was saying listen Roman Christians of one thing you can be sure you can be certain of your salvation You can know beyond the shadow of a doubt that you are saved as a Christian You can know that when death comes you are going to heaven because bear in mind you are more than conquerors You are conquerors plus you are conquerors and then some over all these things That would try to separate you that God would withdraw his love and that God would say I'm going to take back my salvation You can be certain and so he was saying to them in comfort and encouragement You've got it made Christians. You know that you're saved therefore go on and continue I don't drop back don't drop out. Don't be a fallout Don't say I can't make it go on You're more than a conqueror as a conqueror plus go on to victory Don't ever stop and today as you and I look out on our world in this 20th century We may say if only I could be sure that I'm safe If only I could have the certainty that in Christ that I'm going to heaven when I die And Paul says to you and me this morning to encourage us Paul says you can be certain You can know beyond the shadow of a doubt that you are saved because you are more than conquerors You are conquerors plus There is nothing Paul says in all the world That can never cause God to take his love from you and cause God to take back his salvation that he is giving you in Christ And you and I may say I wish to God I could believe that We may look in fear women said a lot of things out there that I think it caused God to take your salvation back I wonder does God really love me that much that I can bank on this promise that there's nothing Absolutely, nothing out there. There is no person there is no force. There is no trouble There is no trial that shall ever Simply drive a wedge between me and my God and his love that God will say sorry son I've got to take back that salvation that I have given you does God really love you and me that much Paul says to you and to me this morning and remember you are not only conquerors You are more than conquerors you are conquerors plus you are conquerors and then some more you've got even more More than that you've got it made don't stop You've got it made go on don't ever drop out There is nothing that can ever cause you to lose it go on You've got it made don't ever say I can't make it anyway go on as a conqueror plus the victory Does God really love you and me that much? Is his love that great in your life and mine that you and I can say and God's gonna see to it because I'm more Than a conqueror that there's nothing lying out there in future That can ever separate me from him and cause him to take back his salvation that I can be absolutely Searching that I am saying this is what Paul would remind you now because in the first place he says this God loves you and me so much that he will see to it that he will always Justify you and me even when others accuse us and condemn us You may say I'm a little afraid to feel that I am certain of salvation there There's too many out there that knew me when there's too many out there that can stand before God and accuse me Can you imagine anybody standing before God and accusing anybody that hadn't coming to him any more than to accuse Paul? Paul was writing these words Paul knew that there were those who could say you mean to tell me God that you saved this guy Paul of Tarsus you mean to say that you have saved him who went out and who killed Christians and who locked them up who? Stood there and allowed them to stone Stephen Do you mean to say that such a derelict like this that God you would save him? In other words, there are accusers who would say do you mean the safe and try to tell God God would say? Oh, I'm awfully sorry that I ever saved this man Paul who was a murderer who was a persecutor. I'm awfully sorry I'm going to take back my salvation that I've given him and Paul says Who shall again stand he says and lay anything to the charge of God's children? Could this perhaps be your story in mind that we could say there's too many out there that knew me when? There are too many out there that accused me before God how in the world can I say I've got it made that I can Be certain of salvation how many of us is this your story that you can say when I was a kid I gave my parents a rough time I did everything that I could do in order to give them heartaches And I did everything that I could do to be disobedient. I treated them miserably I didn't obey I didn't mind them and they know it. I gave them many a heartache I did so many things out of spice and out of enmity and I did everything to try to hurt them and they knew it And then when they grew old I acted like I didn't know them and again I didn't care whether they lived or whether they died you and I may say but I came to Christ How in the world can I be certain of my salvation? Or we may say that I have gone out and I carried a grudge against my fellow man and I hated men When I didn't like them, I had a chip on my shoulder and believe you me when anybody mixed with me I really gave them what they had come until there are a lot that can accuse me and as regards living a virtuous life I lived is this your story? I live for sex I live to go out and to sow all the oats that I could I didn't care about my family I didn't care when my kids knew that I was going to break up that home I didn't give a rot about them or my wife or my husband. What did I care? I live for myself and everybody knows it I've done things that are irreparable and I can't make them up and you mean to say Preacher that I because I come to Christ that I can stand and when the world infuses me and rightly so because they knew me when that I can be searching of salvation You mean to say that I went out and I was dishonest when I stole and I cheated and people know it When they look at me and they say there's somebody who is guilty of theft when again in my words I blackened people and I put the worst construction on everything and I started rumors that weren't true because I Wanted to hurt people you mean to say that I can go through life when there are accusers who stand there and condemn me That I can say that I can be certain of salvation and Paul says that's what I mean to say You are more than a conqueror. He said who is it that does the forgiving anyway? Christian is that God that forgives or is it the accuser? Who is it that condemns that God condemn or Again, do the accusers do that and he reminds you and me that God is the one who forgives that in Christ Jesus God says though your sins be as scarlet. They shall be whiter than snow wife washed your soul whiter than snow I have washed your soul of your guilt and your punishment Let the world stand and let it say I knew you'll bend and let it accuse you God says remember Christian you are more than conquerors. You're a conqueror plus I Do the forgiving and in Christ Jesus because my son came into the world and died for you Because he gave his life and he bore hell and damnation for you. I have forgiven you and I have Forgotten your past and therefore he says and besides here is my son as Paul said who is it that died and rose again? None other than Jesus he died and he rose again who is it that makes? Intercession for us who is it that please our cause and God says your Savior Christ My son pleads your cause and says father forgive them for my righteousness sake I died for all those sins Then God says and I forgive you and I wash your soul whiter than snow Who is there out there that can condemn you This is what Paul was riding home says and I want you know, you are more than a conqueror You say we're conquerors plus. Yes, there isn't anything out there. There is no accuser There is no one barring no one Who can accuse you and me before God and I don't care what your past has been or mine I don't care what people can accuse you and me of it can be the worst and it can be irreparable And you can't undo it But I do know this that God is the one that forgives and forgets and therefore Paul says listen You are more than a computer a conquer person. I like that You're not only a conquer but you're more you're even more than that You're a conqueror plus you've got even more than that because we also have this assurance that God says and I you can start to forgive yourselves When we know that we are more than conquerors when we have turned to Christ Paul learned to forgive himself Paul learned to know God is forgiven Therefore I have this assurance because God has obliterated all my past from his mind. I forgive myself When he started to forgive himself here was assurance This is comfort to you and me in the Christian life. We may say to ourselves Can I be sure that I'm saved Paul said absolutely you can Beyond the shadow of a doubt don't you realize that you're more than a conqueror you're a conqueror plus God has forgiven and forgotten and you've got this assurance. You can forgive yourself. You can forget it and stop it It's irreparable. It's history. It's gone And therefore today when we say to ourselves in this 20th century, what comfort do I have that I'm going to make it? What comfort do I have that again that I having salvation in Christ? That I can be certain of it that when death comes I know that I'm going to be saved and that again that I have in Paul says this is it You're more than a conqueror We ought to write it on our souls this morning and say I know this that I'm saved I may not feel it you and I as a Christian because we have turned to Christ We've got the right to say of it I know that I'm saying whether I feel it or not I know that I am Because he has washed me in his blood and I put my faith and trust in him and therefore because I've got it made I'm going on and I'm never going to say that I just can't make it. I'm going to turn aside I'm going on as a conqueror plus the victory then when they say this is what I'm going to do I'm not going to stop. I'm not going to be a dropout As we go on we're going to thank Christ that he loved you and me that much But he came and died for our sins that he pleads for us and when the time comes in your life and mine So we can thank him and say oh to thank Lord God that you came and you died for me to think that again You silenced my accusers. They they can accuse me, but it doesn't get anywhere They can't separate me from you, but they can't Bible wedge you forgiven me When we thank him then there comes the joy of this assurance in your life and mine growing So that we can even close the door on yesterday How many of us are still at the door open from yesterday? When again, we are more than conquerors We can thank Christ and say I know that I'm safe Paul closed the door on yesterday. It was history. It was past It was done. It couldn't be undone, but it was obliterated in the mind of God When you and I can have that certainty then there is this joy in this assurance in life We can say I closed the door to yesterday my conscience will stop Torturing me on that of the past. It's over it's Forgiven this is comfort you see you and I are more than conquerors We're not only conquerors what were conquerors plus were conquerors and then some Boy, it was riding the Christians at Rome and he was telling them you can be sure that you're saved in all this world and everything so uncertainty you can have the certainty because Remember that in all those things out there that would molest you and would try again to Simply drive a wedge between you and God's love that God would say sorry. I've got to take back my salvation There's nothing out there that can do it who can separate us in the love of Christ I'm not there just isn't anything Paul says you're more than conquerors and because we are We may say this God really love me that much There's God love me that much that God assures me that there's nothing out there Barley nothing that can ever separate me from him that can ever cause him to say sorry son I'm gonna take my salvation back and we I may say well How so well because Paul in the second place to remind you me that God loves you and me just so much Because again, we are more than conquerors that he assures us that no tribulation the very worst whatever it is shall ever be able to come and Separate us from him or cause God to stop loving us that he would say. I'm sorry I've got to take back my salvation. We may look out and say who knows what's coming We're living in this 20th century with a oh, we look at the future. We think it's pretty dark pretty dark What's gonna be all this with again? Here is communist China. Will they get into the United Nations? What's going to be the effect then on Chiang Kai-shek and his government? Where are we going? What's going to happen over there in Israel with the Arab world? What's gonna happen over here with this election that is coming off now in Vietnam and we say who knows what's coming? We look and we say what about it and Paul says Who's going to separate us from the love of Christ and he says how you think tribulation will do it when he was riding in? The Roman he nobody was talking about this wasn't theory He knew what with three missionary journeys what he had gone through he knew what tribulation was He said you think tribulation is ever going to be so great that it's going to be able to simply tear you and me away From God's love that God will say you've been torn away from me It's more powerful than I am and therefore I've got to withdraw my salvation Boss you think tribulation or do it you think distress Paul knew what distress was you think Persecution will do it Paul had been persecuted. You think that he says famine might do it You know what? It was to be hung think nakedness would do it. He was a day and a night in the deep, you know Wondering what was going to happen you think peril he says dangers They've been out after my life. You think the sword will do it wasn't talking theory He was talking about the things that came as I want you to know that none of those things Were so powerful that they ever could carry me from the hand of God He assures you and me this that you and I have got it made we can be searching of salvation And we ought to go on and say I've got it made and I simply can make it I am more than conqueror, you know many the steps That was ever able to rest fall from the hands of God you and I may say but I don't know what's coming in my life It may be terrible Some of these things may be horrible and I don't think I'm going to be able to stand it but listen We've got a God who still rules the world God who says I've got you in the palm of my hand There isn't any power there isn't anything out there. There isn't any adversity. But what again? It's under my control Then we may say but God oh my load. You don't know how much I've got God I my load is greater than I can bear and God says oh, no, it isn't I've never been known to Put a 10-ton load on a ton and a half If you've just got a ton and a half truck I have never Put a 10-ton load on it. Have I? Gotta say I watch it. Oh again, it's going to come crime accumulation As Paul said it is written that he says we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter Again, Paul said this is what happens To those that are Christians we can expect that but God says listen son there isn't anything out there I don't care what you think is going to come It'll never be able to separate you from me that I'll take back my salvation. It just won't happen First of all, I'm too powerful and whatever I allow happen now give you strength And so we say can I be certain of one thing in this uncertain world and Paul says don't forget You're not only a conqueror, but you're a conqueror plus you're a conqueror in them some there isn't anything out there Paul says even imagine the worst cast the fashion of the greatest evil It'll never be able to separate you from the love of God it just didn't do me that way and it won't do you that way and Then you can go on and you can say I can make it I know that I'm saved nothing's going to get in between and drive a wedge between me and God and Cause God to say sorry son. I better take it back I can't any longer save you and we can go on as being conquerors plus We can know that God will even take the worst that comes and he'll overrule these things for our good God says I'll even make a reversal you and I say how can God take evil and Reverse it for good. Well the most shining example is stand at the cross Don't ever forget that the greatest reversal that ever took place in human history took place at Calvary Not only did God's son die for you and me but he died in the most shameful and disgraceful way that you could put A human being to death in that day. It had to be the cross. That was horrible He died as the Word of God says even the death of the cross the most shameful Disgraceful way in which a human being could die the Roman would die by being beheaded But the disgraceful person died in disgrace when he was put on a cross and then God reversed it Rather strange and the shameful hideous cross that just simply was important again God took it in reverse and we stand at Calvary we rejoice in the cross. We build our churches cruciform we put Crosses on the altar we wear crosses again around our necks We say the beautiful cross and we talk about it That's like wearing a hangman's noose around your neck or having a gallows around your neck or a gas chamber or an electric chair That's what the cross was It was the most shameful disgraceful thing you could do to a human being and God says in the same way I will Go ahead and I'll overrule everything that I allow to come that it'll be a blessing in your heaven We're journey that you can have it this added assurance that these things are going to be blessings and someday You'll agree with me whether you see it or not We ought to say this to ourselves and as we go out and face an uncertain world There's one thing that I can be sure of and that is I can be sure that I'm safe I am more than conquer That may again make a closet to something. I'm a conqueror and more than I'm a conqueror plus why? Because Paul said there isn't anything out there It's ever going to be able to separate you and drive a wedge between you and God that God's going to say Sorry, it's not I can no longer love you. I'm gonna take back my stuff. Well, that'll never happen When you and I ought to say to ourselves every day. I know this and I'm saying Well, that doesn't mean we're stuff shirt and we're a Pharisaical and we're self-righteous We can say I know this that I am saved in Christ Jesus because there's nothing out there That can cause God to take this salvation from me When we can say that we're saying I'm going on. I'm not going to stop And I'm going to put tomorrow into Christ's hands This is what Paul learned to do. I Wonder how many of us have gotten to the place in life where we have learned I mean relearn to put tomorrow in the hands of Christ. I Wonder how many of us just stand and shaking our knees simply give way because we just have not learned to live for today Well, we're living in tomorrow and we're just casting the fashion of all kinds of evil that will come and we're saying to ourselves How on the world can I ever make it? How in the world can I ever be say when I look on the horizon and it's so written with blood and I don't know what's coming Paul learned one thing he learned simply to listen to Jesus and Jesus said what are you worried about tomorrow for you? Let me take care of Tomorrow and when we can say to ourselves I know that there's nothing out there in the future that I'll ever be able to simply wrest me away from God that God will Have to take his salvation then we can say Lord Jesus I'm putting tomorrow in your hands and Jesus says let me take care of tomorrow You've got enough troubles for today and you and I have haven't we sufficient for this day are the troubles today? And he said don't borrow tomorrow He said I'll still be with you tomorrow and I'll still be here with all my strength and I'll take care of tomorrow And then when we can say I know that I'm saved because I'm gonna live for today one day at a time And then when this assurance grows we can end the day and say well, I know this I know this He didn't take your salvation away from me today There was no there was no adversity that came today that I couldn't bear We closed yesterday didn't we we came to the end of the day and I don't know about you It was pretty long one for me But at the end of yesterday, I must say this that God didn't send any adversity in my life that Separated me yesterday. Did it happen to you? Was there something yesterday that just simply rested you against your will away from Christ? It didn't happen and I'm sure tonight when you and I get ready to lay our head on the pillow We'll be able to say and I got to another day he didn't again he surely didn't withdraw salvation for me It's been a busy day, but I have strength for the day there was no adversity that came and just tore me out of his hand and Again, I I've been a conqueror today and I know he'll overrule it whenever you and I again can say I knew that I'm saved and today Just today see whenever we can put it in his hands for tomorrow This comes the big difficulty comes doesn't it when we are doubtful about our salvation is when we just don't take him at his word And we just don't tell Jesus now here. I'm putting tomorrow into your hands Oh Paul would comfort us And we say as Christians. I don't think I can make it I don't think I can ever carry on to the day of my death and Paul says now wait a minute Let me tell you who's there out there that can separate us in the love of God Do you know of anything out there any person any event in the accusers any adversities and causes? I don't he said we're more than conquerors. You're a conqueror and you're a conqueror plus When you say does God really love me that much that God says you're saying You've got it, man Keep on going don't give up. Don't throw in the sponge. Don't throw in the towel I don't say I can't make it sure you can make it. You're a victor go on to victory why because Paul reminds you in May too that God loves you and me so much That he seeks to us that Satan and all the fallen angels and hell and the principalities of darkness Shall never be able to separate you and me from his love and cause him to say I've got to take my salvation back Paul says how about Angels and principalities and powers you and I may say look at Satan. Oh, how many times did Satan come to tempt Paul? How many times did Satan come to him when Paul talked about the thorn he had in the butt? He said it was Satan a Satan coming and trying to tempt him to sin to turn his back on Christ to go out and to Live for the world and do what I may say How can I ever hope to be saved when a Satan tempts me like he does you young folks? Believe you me you're in for it and you're getting it aren't you? Satan who has no conscience. He again is tempting you to sin in every way imaginable First of all, he comes in tells you who are your parents? You never asked to be born did you why in the world did they ever bring you into the world? Go out and live for yourself. You don't need them What's the idea of trying to be what do you care whether you hurt them go out and live it up What do you care whether you go out and live in spite if you don't like something go burn it down That's all right. If this is the establishment. Oh, what do you care? And as far as virtue Oh Satan likes to tell you doesn't a young man you are out. You are a virtuous prude. Are you a virtuous nut? Why you girls if you expect the boys to date you? You mean to tell me that you think that you can go out and you can't go all the way That if you're not going to put out, how do you ever expect that that boy is ever going to ask you again? Where did you get such a silly idea? Why take the pill, you know, that's the thing. Are you afraid of getting pregnant? Don't worry about that. Just take the pill and you go out and enjoy yourself And if you happen to have a babe that's all right don't let that worry All you say how in the world in God's name can I go on? because there is conscience and Paul says Listen statement all the principalities and powers of hell He says they can't ever cause God to stop loving you take back his salvation Because God says with all the power of hell God says don't forget I'm there and Jesus is there and all you need to say is give me the faith and say no That's all Satan can't Reach up and tear you and me away from God. It can't be done It just can't happen. I Don't care what Satan throws at you and me I Said you're more than conqueror to Christ When we have tried to keep bigger than Satan, he's bigger than all the forces of hell You and I can stand and say Satan come on with all of it You're not going to deceive me You're not going to have me kick over the traces. You're not going to have me say there isn't such a thing as right There isn't such a thing as wrong Because when I do I know you when my conscience troubles me and I stand and you laugh at me And you tell me you're lost in your damn. God doesn't want anything to do with you. This brings despair We are more than conquerors young friends. There isn't anything out there I don't care how powerful Satan is much more powerful than you and I and all the powers of hell Paul says They can't ever tear you away from God Therefore Paul says listen you've got it made and go on don't stop you are more than conquer You've got this assurance that even in the moment of death Paul says Satan won't have any power over you when you're weak and you're dying and you're incoherent Satan won't be able to snatch you away from God. He says Christ will be there. Don't you ever forget? He'll be there Nobody's gonna snatch you away from him and whatever thoughts may come when you are in a delirium and then you are weak Whatever thoughts may come this Jesus that intercedes is there and he's forgiving you so that you are still his Even at the moment of death you are more than conqueror. There isn't anybody that's going to separate you from God We ought to say this then to ourselves God. I want to say every day in my life that I know I'm saved I mean I feel that I'm safe But I know I am because I know there's nothing out there that can separate me God from you I know that I'm a conqueror and I'm a conqueror plus I I'm more than a conqueror I am a conqueror plus everything else When we say that we ought to say God I'm going on I am going on I know that I've got it made and I'm going on and I'm going to keep on in Christ in spite of my weak faith And some of us may say but oh my faith is so weak. Oh preacher you don't know how weak my faith is. May I say what do you mean weak faith? What do you mean weak in respect to what? Is it weak in respect to somebody whose faith is a little stronger you think? Or again, is it weak? Just as regards everybody's faith being weak Paul's faith was pretty weak too, but you know I don't know about your Bible, you know my Bible Does your Bible say anything about the fact that if you and I have a weak faith that we can't make it? My Bible says something of this and it comforts me no end because I've got a weak faith too And I know you have and I know others have got a stronger faith than I and I'm probably mine stronger than somebody else But I know mine could be mine could be stronger because we're all to pray for the stronger faith But you know my Bible says something like this to me. God says why a broken lead? He says I'd never think of breaking God says to me if your face son is so weak that it's like the broken reader like the stem of a flower and it's Broken over God. Did you think that I would ever tear that off? God tells me that even though my face is awfully weak. God says it's still a saving faith I'd never think of taking my salvation from you. He said a smoking flask I'd never put up is your faith just like something that just it's just smoldering but there's no flame just smoke You mean to tell me that God says that I would pour water on that I kill that that I squelch it and I squint Oh God says oh no Oh, no, God says why a weak faith if that's what you got why I'd never think of Withdrawing my salvation from you. What kind of a love do you think I've got? And because God said if you just keep on with all that weak faith if you just say Lord Jesus I'm gonna hold on to you for dear life. I know that I'm saved I'm more than a conqueror and I know there's nothing out there that can ever take me away I know that I'm going to win because I've got to even though my faith is weak. This is Comfort show your faith and I am great. Who's it? But I know this that a week they say I Know this it's so he will temper when they accuse me He will give me strength to say don't worry about those that accuse you when adversities come He'll say even though you got a week. I'll see that the adversity isn't too big Again, I'll see to it that on your truck that that load is going to be measured It isn't going to be greater than that week faith of yours when Satan comes up I'll give you enough strength if you ask me don't you ever worry about that? When again we can say well There's only one way I can lose and that is to turn my back on him The only way in the world that you and I can lose salvation is to say I thought I had it made But I'm I'm giving you up Christ because I don't think I can make it and turn our back on him Who wants to do that in weakness of faith? We've gone along so long to give up now when we're so close again So close perhaps closer than you and I ever we like so close to the gold When we can say God I'm going on even though my face is weak Then we'll see this assurance growing that when we stand at that moment, we will I hear death we will accept it Why is it that we fear death so terribly at times? Why is it that we fight it and it's such a tragedy isn't it because? We're afraid of it because we aren't sure that we're saying But oh when we can be certain to God I'm more than conquer Christ. You're going to be there You went to the grave for me Christ and it came back Oh and we can accept death and we say I know that I'm going to die I know that that's going to come but I know that because I have Christ that death is the gateway to life I know it's a little dark there, but I know he's going to be there and hold on to me Because I know he's going to be there just a few moments and he's not gonna let anything ever Simply tear me away from him and I know that just beyond the gateway. I'm going home You know what a comfort it must have been to Paul he finally got to Rome He didn't realize when he would go there to visit that he went as a prisoner. He went and changed You know, he wanted to go there again There's the gate missionary to the Gentile when he got there to put him in jail for two years And they let him out a little bit and then they re-arrested him and finally he stood before his persecutors And they said Paul you have been sentenced to death and there was a brilliant man had done so much for God Nothing else mattered here was death and there was the block And I feel sure that when the executioner said Paul you've got to lay your head down the block I suppose he shook hands with the executioner and said I dare you know, we'll will I imagine he said a good word for Christ and a man who said I'm going home when he laid his head down I don't suppose they had to chain him or tie him He laid his head down and the executioner reached up with the sword and off came his head the thought that I'm going home I'm not afraid of death because I've got to pay I'm going to be home with my Heavenly Father And when you and I can have this certainty that we can say to ourselves Why when death comes I'm going to welcome it because this is the gateway. I'm going home Everything's going to be alright. This is living in its best Oh that we can be certain of one thing that we're saved We are more than conquerors and as we walk the glory road, let's don't forget to sing once in a while Blessed assurance. Jesus is mine Oh what a foretaste of glory divine air of salvation purchased by God born of the Spirit washed in his blood This is my story. This is my song praising my Savior all the day long. This is my story This is my song praising my Savior all the day long. We've got it made Don't forget this morning when you go out of church you and I in Christ. We are more than conquerors We are conquerors plus don't forget it The peace of God which passes all human understanding keeping the night your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus until I ever last