 Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Let us hear the word of God as we find it written in the book of the Acts of the Apostles, reading there in the second chapter beginning at the 37th verse. Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. For the promise is unto you and to your children and to all that are to far off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call. And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward generation. And now may the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts be acceptable in thy sight. Oh Lord our strength and our redeemer. Amen. Good morning dear friends in Christ Jesus. I need not tell you this is a beautiful morning and I hope that all of us are glad that we are alive, that we have the privilege on this day of coming into God's house and of worshiping Him. Today if you looked on your church calendar is known as Trinity Sunday. This is the day when we have a festival. We celebrate the festival of the Holy Trinity. And we may say, what is this festival? And may I say about it, it's a little different from the other church festivals in that most of the other festivals celebrate an event that took place. When we celebrate Christmas it celebrates an historic event, the birth of Jesus. And when again we celebrate Good Friday it celebrates the historic event of His death. And when Easter came the historic event of His resurrection. And then came Ascension, an event when Jesus went back to heaven. Then last Sunday you know was Pentecost when we celebrated the actual outpouring of the Holy Spirit and the birthday of the Christian Church. Now when you come to Trinity Sunday it does not in any way celebrate an historic fact. Our church fathers thought this, that in the festival half of the church there ought to be one Sunday set aside when we do honor to our triune God, our one God and yet three persons, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And that is this Sunday. And so this is the Sunday when we honor our God whom we know as a three in one, a triune God. May I say that the text that I just read is very appropriate for this Sunday. These were words spoken by the Apostle Peter on the day of Pentecost, the celebration that we had last Sunday. You recall that on Pentecost the Holy Spirit was poured out and then the Apostle Peter preached a sermon. And when he finished that sermon that day we are told that in the multitudes there were many who were picked in their heart. They were touched to the core and they turned because they were filled with fear. And they said to Peter and to the disciples, men and brethren what must we do? Tell us what we are to do. In other words we'd like to be saved. What do we have to do? And then it was that the Apostle Peter turned and he said these words. He says repent and be baptized every one of you. They wanted to know what do you do in order to be saved from eternal death? What do you do in order to be saved unto eternal life? What do you do to get your sins forgiven? And Peter said repent and be baptized every one of you. And on this Trinity Sunday as we celebrate again the Trinity of our God and give him honor, the Apostle Peter says to you and me, will you repent and be baptized if you want to be saved? And you and I may say I want to be saved. I want to have the assurance that my sins are forgiven. I want to be delivered from an eternity of punishment separated from God. And I want to live with God in heaven and eternity. And then Peter says if you want to be saved, repent and be baptized. See to it that you have repented. See to it that you are baptized. Every one of you and don't let anyone feel that it's not for him. And yes that may present a problem to you and me this morning. We may say we are to repent and to be baptized if we want to be saved. And we may say why? Why do I have to repent? Why do I have to be baptized? What's so important about repenting? What is so wonderful about baptism? In fact we may hear these words so often in church, this thing of repenting and being baptized, that we may say they have sort of degraded themselves and they have depreciated themselves. And we may look at this thing of repent and say well now let's see, repent to be sorry. We may say that's a cheap thing in order to expect salvation from you. That I am to repent just to say that I'm sorry. We may say that's sort of a oh that's a cheap, that's an inconsequential, that's an insignificant thing. What's so important about repenting? Then we may say well I'm to be baptized. What's so all fire and important about having somebody sprinkle some water on your head? And we may say this is, oh this is sort of a cheap thing. This almost borders on the ridiculous that I'm to say I'm sorry and have somebody put some water on my head. And then if that's what I must do to be saved, we may say why? What's so important? Why is this such a necessity? We may look at this thing and we may say after all it's surely not meritorious. It isn't that because I say I'm sorry and I let somebody put some water on my head. That that means that that's so meritorious in the sight of God that God is so anxious to save me. That this is such a great good work and you and I say there's surely nothing meritorious about this thing. And so we have a problem don't we? We say if we want to be saved and we do and the Apostle Peter says repent and be baptized. And we say why? What is so important? Why is it so necessary? Why is this the thing something that is such an imperative in our life? And yet the Apostle Peter this morning on this Trinity Sunday would say to you and me if you want to be saved, if you want to spend eternity with God in heaven, repent and be baptized. And he would assure you and me that these are absolute necessities. These are things that must be done in your life and mine. Even though we may say oh they're rather cheap, they're a little bit insignificant, they're a little trivial, and surely they're anything but meritorious. We ought to this morning look at these repenting and being baptized. What do they really mean? If again these things have lost their meaning for you and me and come down to little simple foolish thing of I'm sorry and let somebody sprinkle some water on my head. I think we ought to spend a little time and say what do they really mean? In the first place Peter would remind you and me of this. That again, repentance on your part and mine means this that we turn to Jesus Christ and we admit to him that we are sinners and that we are lost and we are condemned to hell because of our sins. Oh there's nothing cheap about repentance. You and I may have made it glibly and our likes, I'm sorry and all that's kind of cheap isn't it? We may say this thing isn't meritorious. I don't earn salvation just because I'm sorry. That isn't such a great work in the sight of God. But if you and I remember that Peter was speaking this day, it was exactly 53 days from the time when Peter, you know when he was in the courtyard of Caiaphas, had miserably turned and had denied his Lord and had displaced him and that Peter had displaced himself. You remember the Word of God tells us that it was on Easter Sunday afternoon that the risen Christ made a special appearance to Peter alone. The Word of God doesn't tell us anything about it. Have you any idea what they must have talked about that afternoon when the risen Christ appeared to Peter who had displaced himself and displaced his Lord and said I never knew him. I've never seen him in my life and he cursed and he swore in order to make them around him. I think that this is what he done. I don't think it's very hard to imagine what Peter said. I imagine that Pete Johnson stood before Jesus that Easter Sunday afternoon and he said Lord I did it. I don't know why but I did and I own up to it. I have no apologies. I have no excuses. I'm a sinner. I said that I didn't even know you and if you dealt with me the way you ought to, you ought to damn me forever. That's what I deserve and I'm sure that's what Pete Johnson said to him that Easter Sunday afternoon. There isn't anything cheap about repentance. Repentance means this. It's more than just goodly saying I'm sorry Lord. Repentance means that I'm sorry and I stand before you Lord Jesus and I admit that I'm a sinner and I admit that if you dealt with me the way I deserve I ought to spend eternity in hell. That's what repentance means. The Apostle Peter knew what it was. There's nothing cheap about it. There's nothing meritorious. You and I would say well how do I come to a conviction like that that I'm a sinner and how do I come to a conviction that I'm lost and damned. The Word of God says by the laws the knowledge of sin. When you and I look at our lives according to the Ten Commandments and we know that God says I am the Almighty God walk before me and be thou perfect and in each one of the commands God says thou shalt and thou shalt not and you and I don't measure up and God says because you have broken my law you stand guilty and I the Lord thy God am a jealous God visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children. When you and I dare to look at our lives according to the law the Ten Commandments that's when we cry out and say I am a sinner and I deserve to be banished to hell. There are no excuses. There are no extenuating circumstances. That's what repentance means and therefore no wonder Peter would say if you want to be saved then as he told them that day on Pentecost he says repent and be baptized. Repentance is an absolute necessity because only then do you and I show Jesus Christ that we want to be saved. Show me a man that doesn't admit these are sinners. Show me a man that doesn't admit that if God injustice would deal with him he'd damn him and I'll show you a man that doesn't want to be saved. Repentance isn't cheap it isn't meritorious and that's why Peter says again on that day and he says to you and me today if you want to be saved if you really want to spend eternity with God in heaven then again you've got to repent and it isn't cheap it isn't something that's glib it isn't just something trivial it isn't something that again can be reduced to an absurdity it means to be sorry that we stand before him and we admit that we are lost and damn sinners. We say to ourselves no wonder Peter would say and he knew by personal experience what it all meant he stood there that day before that mother to do when they said what shall we do and he said this is what you do you repent and he says you are baptized and we may say what so all fired important and necessary about repenting and Peter would remind you and me that it isn't cheap this thing of repentance this thing of saying sorry for my sins that it means this that you and I also turn to Jesus Christ and we tell him this that we are starting enough to quit doing those things which we know are wrong. Have you ever wondered what happened on Easter Sunday afternoon when the risen Christ was with Peter alone? He was with Pete Johnson who had disgraced him and who had disgraced himself who had shamed him and said I never knew him and cursed him for I never saw that man in my life. What do you think Peter said in repentance that afternoon? It isn't hard to understand that Peter standing before Jesus no doubt said I'm sorry I'm ashamed of myself and I admit that I'm lost and condemned and also that he said I'm sorry enough that Lord Jesus it'll never happen again. I'll never be ashamed of you I'll never deny you again I'll never tell anybody I don't know you I'll never do anything in my life and I know is deliberately wrong that's what repentance means it's nothing cheap and it's nothing meritorious when in your life and mine you say to ourselves I'd like to be saved I'd like to spend eternity in heaven and Peter says repent that means this that you and I this is a repentance that isn't cheap stuff this is a repentance that is really the only kind that we not only face Jesus with our sins but we say this I'm not going to do it over again I'm going to stop doing those things in my life which are wrong and if you and I again are guilty of drunkenness or adultery or immorality or of deceit or of dishonesty whatever it is we stop when we say this is at an end I'm sorry enough to quit that is an absolute necessity why because only when you and I are starting up to quit doing that which we know is wrong only then are we telling Jesus Christ that we really want to spend eternity in heaven where there's holiness unless you and I are starting up to quit doing that which we know is wrong who in the world wants to spend an eternity in heaven in holiness if in your life and mine there isn't this kind of repentance that we say I'm quitting doing that which is wrong heaven would be a horrible place to think of it to spend eternity where there is only holiness and there is only purity when you and I can't give it up in this world heaven would be hell wouldn't it therefore again the wonder Peter this is an absolute necessity you've got to repent and only then do we tell Jesus I do want to spend eternity with you in heaven where there's holiness and that I am not one that just simply say it's a lesser of two evils I don't want to go to hell and I don't want to suffer and therefore I'll take the lesser of two evils I'll take a chance on eternity in holiness that kind of repentance is cheap that is again no repentance of course is meritorious but again we say to ourselves what so all fired important why is it an absolute essential that if I want to be saved I've got to repent the only way in God's world that you have in your life and I have in my life to let Jesus Christ know that we really want to go to heaven that we want to be with him in the holiness of heaven is by not a cheap repentance but a repentance that proves that on earth that we want to live a holy life that we are preparing in this world in order to live in the eternal mansions where there will be no sin and unless repentance brings that determination in your heart and mind then it's absolutely not worth anything it's the cheapest thing in the world and again surely not meritorious but that is not repentance that's just a little glib I'm sorry going on and living as we please we say to ourselves on this Trinity Sunday when Peter says if you want to be saved if you want to spend eternity with God in heaven then you're going to have to repent and you're going to have to be baptized and we say why this thing it's why this is sort of a cheap thing to say I'm sorry and you think somebody can sprinkle a little water on my head and this is going to do it there's nothing so meritorious in that Peter would remind him but it's an absolute necessity because he would also remind you the repentance means this that we turn to Jesus Christ and put our faith and our trust in him for eternal life trusting him as our Savior whenever in the Word of God you find the word repentance standing alone we say it's in the wider sense that it includes sorrow for sin and it also includes faith in Jesus Christ there are other statements in Scripture for when it says repent and believe the gospel with them repentance as a narrow or me which means sorrow for sin standing and admitting it and telling God will not do it again so repentance includes faith in Jesus Christ there's nothing cheap about repentance repentance means this that I stand before Christ and I tell him I put my faith and my confidence in you as my personal Savior if you and I want to be saved this is an absolute must we go back to Peter Peter came to that conviction in his life remember that he came down from Bethsaida in Galilee he and his brother Andrew and they came down where John the Baptist was preaching they were a follower of John and then you remember and who met Jesus and Andrew introduced Simon Peter to Jesus and he got this name Peter Simon was with him and wondering is this the Messiah is he the Christ is he the Savior and after three years of being with him you recall up on the Caesarean Philippian Highway when Jesus asked the disciple who do you say that I am it was Simon Peter said thou art the Christ the Son of the Living God and he came to the conviction that here this Jesus of Nazareth was God the Son the second person of the Trinity he was the Savior of the world Peter had trouble as did the other disciples in understanding Christ's death but even that became something understandable that he knew that on the cross when God's Son died he was bearing the guilt and the punishment of the world sinned and he knew that after he arose from the dead that here was life and salvation this was the promise Messiah this was the Christ who was to come when Peter said before that group that day on Pentecost and they said what shall we do there were trouble we'd like to be saved Peter says repent and that means you've got to put your faith in Jesus Christ that isn't meritorious just to say that I have faith I don't merit salvation because it's so good to have faith faith again connects me to Jesus Christ that's the value of faith it's like the umbilical cord of the unborn child it isn't the cord that is so important but it's the fact that the umbilical cord connects the unborn child to its mother that's what it gets its power and again when you and I put our faith and our trust in Christ and we believe that he died for us and goes again and we rest our confidence in him then he gives us the robe of righteousness that he yearned for us and that robe when we put it on it simply pardons our sins and covers them up and that robe because it's whiter than snow and it's without spot and wrinkle when God looks at you and me there is no punishment then we have a holiness the robe of Jesus Christ that admits us to heaven it's an absolute must if you and I want to be saved Peter would say that you've got to repent because repentance means that this is faith which joins us to Christ and he's the only one that has life and eternal salvation didn't mean cheap it isn't something that we say was rather trivial it's insignificant it's almost an absurd thing to say I'm sorry you'll know repentance means faith confidence that we rest our eternal destiny in Jesus as the eternal Son of God Peter when he was speaking that day he also said repent and be baptized we may say you mean just to have somebody sprinkle a little water on your head and this is the end reminds you and me that this is an absolute necessity because baptism means this that when we are baptized we are born again how many of us understand that though it looks like you just sprinkle a little water on a child's head when we think about that to remember what Jesus said in John 3 when he was talking to Nicodemus and he told Nicodemus you've got to be born again you've got to be born a second time then he told them how you do that you got to be born of water in the spirit that's baptism you and I don't understand baptism until we know that this is tremendous that in baptism we are born again that God the Holy Spirit the third person of the Trinity works in baptism Peter said this promises unto your children let's start with the child what about a child when a child is born in this world is a child born a Christian or is it not are you and I born Christians by virtue of natural birth Jesus says that which is born of the flesh is flat and you got to be born of the spirit by flashy doesn't mean you're just born a human being question the word of God also means you're born in sin while a child has not done anything that is deliberately wrong a child is born in the condition of sin you and may say what about the thing of original sin it is capable of dying isn't it a child there are those that say a child isn't a sinner he's innocent until he reaches the age when he knows right from wrong but I'd like to ask you if that's true and scripture doesn't say that why is it that every last one of us when we reach the age of knowing right from wrong we always went to the wrong why isn't there isn't a human being that's ever been born except Jesus Christ that has ever lived a perfect life there's something wrong with you and me by birth we are born in the condition of sin here is baptism and Peter says this promises to your children by baptism we are born again the Holy Spirit by means of water in the Word of God again it comes to the child puts a living faith in that child washes away its original sin and grandson to an eternal life even though the child is not conscious of it in the Holy Spirit moves in Peter said you shall receive the Holy Spirit how about an adult an adult can come to faith in Jesus Christ without baptism through repentance and faith and by means of faith the Holy Spirit moves in and he becomes a temple of God then we say what about baptism well the very fact that an adult has come to faith in Christ without that doesn't mean that baptism is not still a washing of regeneration that it's not still a being born again when an adult submits the baptism it's more than water on the head the Holy Spirit by means of water in the Word of God there is again an entrance into that person's heart the Holy Spirit dwelling they're bringing forgiveness life and salvation let me tell you baptism does something you receive the Spirit and because this is it this is tremendous this is why it is necessary Peter knew what it was he was baptized by John the Baptist even though a man may wander away Peter was never re-baptized some have asked me do you have to be baptized over again oh no when God in baptism makes a covenant with you and me and the Holy Spirit comes and claims us as his own he never goes back on his bargain you and I may wander away there's nothing in the Word of God that says I've got to be re-baptized or baptized over Peter was not baptized over again and on this day again three thousand souls were one for Christ and they were baptized they received the Holy Spirit but there's nothing in the Word of God that says that they received any extraordinary powers nothing is said that the three thousand spoken languages that they didn't know or in an intelligible languages or that they had powers of healing not at all in baptism we receive the Holy Spirit that Holy Spirit again brings us to faith in Jesus Christ and if we are an adult again it's a re-entry a re-bringing a rebirth again with Jesus Christ by means of the Holy Spirit and this is an absolute essential because in the case of the child there is no other way that we have whereby we can bring a child to saving faith in Christ you may say to me this more what happens to the unbaptized baby may I say this the Word of God doesn't tell us God says that's my business you baptize the child and you let me take care of the unbaptized child this was an absolute essential it's the only way that we have to assure us of eternal life for the child and as regards the adult to repudiate baptism is fatal when an adult refuses baptism it's not the absence of baptism a man may die intending to be baptized and that isn't going to cause him to be lost but when a man absolutely rejects baptism then he is denying the command of Jesus Christ therefore again it's more than just sprinkling water on somebody's head this is Trinity Sunday and the Apostle Peter says to you and me today if you want to be saved then repent and be baptized see to it above all that these things aren't cheap these things aren't little good things these things aren't absurd things Peter would remind them these are absolute necessities these must be in your experience in mind and if they are we ought to say to ourselves today then that I'm going to see to it I want to be saved and I'm assuming that most of us do we say I want to be saved and therefore I am going to see that I repent and we ought to stop for a moment say well what kind of repentance is mine is it a cheap old thing what kind of a variety is mine a cheap repentance or is it a godly repentance have I admitted my sins have I told God I'm sorry enough to quit doing those things that are wrong if I have that's the kind of repentance that God wants and again there was in necessities and gives you and me the assurance that the Holy Spirit is still working on us that he hasn't left us we need to look at ourselves and say what kind of a faith do I have in Christ is it a cheap faith one that just the sensor have I really trusted him have I leaned heavily on him do I put my hope and my confidence in him when you and I have it ceases to be cheap this is again a faith in one who died for you and me and we need again to look at ourselves and to say have I been baptized have I been baptized again have I been washed in this washing of regeneration the same fall calls it in a renewing of the Holy Ghost but have he news me then you and I can have the assurance and the double assurance with that and that we are saved that we do have eternal life this is what Peter was talking about and we ought to today then when this is Kennedy Sunday we ought to thank God that he made himself known to us as a triune God we may say to ourselves so wonderful about setting the Sunday aside and thanking God because he's triune we may say who understands that the God is one God and yet three persons separate and distinct father son Holy Ghost you may remember it was Daniel Webster you know when he came from church in Boston Massachusetts one Sunday when he met the friend who said and there's a man that goes to a church that believes the three times one equals one remember it was Daniel Webster that said to his Unitarian friend he said but you and I are not to know the arithmetic of heaven that in heaven three times one equals one on earth three times one equals three we may say what's so wonderful about it why did God ever make himself known to us as one God and three persons and God knew that you and I could never understand it unless you and I can understand why he did it we're missing something the reason he did it was this God says I've got a risk letting them know the kind of God I am because I want them to know the way to heaven I want them to know about my son Jesus Christ in other words the reason why God ever revealed himself as the Trinity as the three-in-one God was to assure you and me that he is a God of mercy and love that he has a magnificent obsession that he wants to save that's why you don't understand the joy of the Trinity bless you and I can say God wanted us to know that he loves us that again he'd rather forgive and save than to eat he wanted us to know that Jesus was his son therefore he risked revealing himself in his essence to knowing you and I couldn't understand it the Trinity means this that God God is magnificently crazy God is magnificently insane he bends over backwards he'd rather do with the need to save you and me what do you think that meant to Peter that day put yourself in his place just 53 days after he did what he did and I'm telling you as a human being you go ahead and disgrace yourself and defame the name of Jesus Christ and let me tell you 53 days later you aren't over it boy that's how cutting Aaron Pete Johnson had it I wonder how many times he despaired were told in tradition that every time I heard a rooster crow got down on his knees and he cried anybody here this morning who is despairing because of his sins who is saying I've repented and I have put my faith in Christ and I've been baptized and yet I feel so hopeless I don't feel like I'm safe listen friend you've got a triune gun and let me tell you he is saying to you and me this morning I've let you know my essence I know you wouldn't understand because I want you to know that I'm a magnificently gloriously insane God I wanted to save you that much that I told you about myself that you'd never understand let me tell you Pete Johnson must have been comforted many a time when again despair would counter he had a liver this thing the other they all know about it don't you forget that they reminded him of it what he had done won't you forget that again he had a liver that and it was a tough job to forgive himself but God was trying never to spare let Trinity Sunday mean this what a God we've got a God that is magnificently and hopelessly insane but he says if you just repent and believe in Jesus and be baptized I'll save you whether you feel your Savior whether you feel you're lost don't despair think of it in heaven when Isaiah was given a vision to heaven have you realized when God let Isaiah who lives 700 years before Christ get a vision of heaven he saw the Lord sitting upon the throne and the seraphim the angels the great host of angels around the throne remember what they were singing holy holy holy is the Lord of hosts the whole earth is full of his glory they were singing praise to the triune God holy Father holy Son holy Spirit wide because it's the Trinity lets you and me know what a tremendous God we've got gloriously magnificently insane oh he just wants to say don't despair Peter didn't oh he had some rough days he'll live with it for the rest of his life let me tell you repent believe in Jesus be baptized walk the glory road and find the joy of singing the song on earth that 10,000 times 10,000 a hundred million angels sing in heaven holy holy holy Lord God a Sabbath heaven the earth are full of my glory oh what a great God sound to sound to sound to God you'll want to save and I am saved even though I don't feel it amen the peace of God which passeth all human understanding keep you night your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus until I better life